Add `osu! World Cup 2023: Round of 16 Recap` news post (#10408)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2023/2023-11-08-OWC2023-RO16-recap.md

---
layout: post
title: "osu! World Cup 2023: Round of 16 Recap"
date: 2023-11-08 16:30:00 +0000
---

Want to stay up to date with all the latest osu! World Cup happenings, or maybe just look back at the action packed weekend? [Junihuhn](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4182339) is here to deliver!

![](/wiki/Tournaments/OWC/2023/img/owc2023-banner.jpg)

As previously mentioned in [this news post](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-08-21-contributing-to-the-osu-news-feed), this year you can expect a weekly rundown of the osu! World Cup stages, starting with the Round of 16. Hosted by the one and only Junihuhn, they will be taking the best moments of the previous week's stage and *burning them into the retina's of your eyes*.

> Also, as is tradition by now they will also be doing a video series on their [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@Junihuhn/) (which is a mandatory viewing for all osu! World Cup enthusiasts). You can find the [Round of 32 recap](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ydOlxHQg0UM) from the previous week on there, or you can check out the Round of 16 recap in a video format below:

Author: this was all fluff i put in, but yeah understandable

<div align="center">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SlWKKA-ltZY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

> Without further ado, let's look at some highlighted matches from the Round of 16!
> 

Reviewer: bit redundant and also awkwardly sandwiched between the video above and the heading below

![image](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/assets/36758269/c055455b-2f3a-4bb5-aabd-068e8e9f089b)

```suggestion
```

### ::{ flag=DE }:: Germany vs. ::{ flag=CA }:: Canada

Yes, you are reading this correctly.

> Due to Canada's unusual 11th seed placing ([due to some players playing qualifiers at TwitchCon with technical issues](https://twitter.com/xootynator/status/1716179172270166224)), this battle of tournament veterans happened in RO16. The spectators were expecting a coin flip match, well represented by the [osu! World Cup pick'ems](https://pickem.hwc.hr/tournaments/130)[^1]. The North American squad had the better start going up 3-1 including an important break point on [Mysteka - Jerrybeans](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1860553#osu/3825151). Germany responded quickly on the low approach rate map [jun with Alison - SUNKiSS DROP ~jun side~](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1498309#osu/3070802), claiming the break point right back. [Criller](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8116659)'s double S and [Shiox](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11921197)'s 1x100 score provided much needed confidence.

Author: I had issues understanding why this would even be surprising, probably because I am not familiar with how seeding works lol

However, the slug fest of break points continued on a highly contested [Yamamoto Mineko - Presea](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2082024#osu/4360325) pick. Eventually, this turned out to be the crucial point for Canada, and they converted their first match point into the seed upset 5-2 victory against the bronze medallist of 2022.

> [^1]: Scroll to the bottom of the page, select `Round of 16` and find the match marked `X`.

Reviewer 2: Notes are usually found at the bottom of the post with a level 2 header, i.e. `## Notes` (for wiki articles at least).

That said, I'm not 100% sure that's the reason for it not working as footnotes in news posts are very rare

Author: the only reason for the footnote is that the website does not make it clear where you can see previous rounds, I literally couldn't find it for 5 mins lol

Author: ![image](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/assets/24534022/de9597d5-10a9-4990-9376-4422380967c9)

I'd like to hear opinions on whether we can leave the link as is without the footnote (due to my concern voiced above) or if we need to figure out something else

Author: addressed in https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/10408/commits/e252dcac10f70e6bc12be6d55eb70efd83edc70f, should be sufficient without breaking the overall formatting of the post

The team from Thailand were swept against the United States back in the Round of 32, while New Zealand just barely missed out on advancing in the winners' bracket against Italy. Thus, the confidence level from the Kiwis seemed quite high, and the odds were in their favour.

> As it happens, Thailand struggled quite a bit to win their own first two picks by a margin of less than 30k points on each map. However, New Zealand didn't manage to win a single break point while confidently winning their own picks, which consequently led to the tiebreaker. Here, disaster struck for Thailand as ::{ flag=TH }:: [Deppyforce](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5286213) disconnected during the last map and a restart was not possible anymore. New Zealand took the lead back and increased it — until Deppyforce resurrected and proceeded to full combo the tiebreaker along with ::{ flag=TH }:: [chests](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14806365) and ::{ flag=NZ }:: [Zoomer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6600930).
> 
> The Kiwis have been eliminated after two heartbreaking tiebreaker losses whereas Thailand's roster will continue their journey thanks to their huge carry: ::{ flag=TH }:: [Lesperry](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18092331).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As it happens, Thailand struggled quite a bit to win their own first two picks by a margin of less than 30k points on each map. However, New Zealand didn't manage to win a single break point while confidently winning their own picks, which consequently led to the tiebreaker. Here, disaster struck for Thailand as ::{ flag=TH }:: [Deppyforce](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5286213) disconnected during the last map and a restart was not possible anymore. New Zealand took the lead back and increased it — until Deppyforce resurrected and proceeded to full combo the tiebreaker along with ::{ flag=TH }:: [chests](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14806365) and ::{ flag=NZ }:: [Zoomer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6600930).

That combined with ::{ flag=TH }:: [Lesperry](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18092331)'s otherwise huge carry for the team, the Kiwis have been eliminated after two heartbreaking tiebreaker losses whereas Thailand's roster will continue their journey in the Quarterfinals to face Ukraine next.
```

> The Kiwis have been eliminated after two heartbreaking tiebreaker losses whereas Thailand's roster will continue their journey thanks to their huge carry: ::{ flag=TH }:: [Lesperry](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18092331).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That combined with ::{ flag=TH }:: [Lesperry](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18092331)'s otherwise huge carry for the team, the Kiwis have been eliminated after two heartbreaking tiebreaker losses whereas Thailand's roster will continue their journey in the Quarterfinals to face Ukraine next.
```

> The Kiwis have been eliminated after two heartbreaking tiebreaker losses whereas Thailand's roster will continue their journey thanks to their huge carry: [Lesperry](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18092331).

Author: I will ask junihuhn to comment

> The Kiwis have been eliminated after two heartbreaking tiebreaker losses whereas Thailand's roster will continue their journey thanks to their huge carry: [Lesperry](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18092331).

Reviewer 3: Ah good point. I really wanted to insert Lesperry somehow because they are the main carry of Thailand. We don't have to commit though. 

Alternative: "The Kiwis have been eliminated after two heartbreaking tiebreaker losses whereas Thailand's roster will continue their journey in Quarterfinals to face Ukraine next."

### ::{ flag=KZ }:: Kazakhstan vs. ::{ flag=JP }:: Japan

Kazakhstan qualified for the osu! World Cup for the first time since the inception of the tournament, which was a surprise to the average viewer. As seed #32, every point feels like a small victory. This roster orbiting around [Kamensh1k](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/16817965) showed that everything is possible, especially in early rounds.

> They took the first step against Japan on [Motley Croe - Kickstart My Heart](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1332159#osu/2760226), clutching the map victory by less than 10k points difference. The Japanese team swiftly replied with two points including a convincing break point on [sHimaU - Noumen Break](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1964101#osu/4319264). Then, out of nowhere, the team from Central Asia won three consecutive maps, bringing them to 4-2, double match point. Japan desperately needed their own 3-0 run to stay in the tournament. Top player [Teacchyyy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7178423) was there when most needed, 1x missing [Toromaru - Ebb Tide](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2082040#osu/4360358) and top scoring NM2 which kept Japan in the match to force the tiebreaker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They took the first step against Japan on [Motley Croe - Kickstart My Heart](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1332159#osu/2760226), clutching the map victory by a difference of less than **10000** points. The Japanese team swiftly replied with two points including a convincing break point on [sHimaU - Noumen Break](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1964101#osu/4319264). Then, out of nowhere, the team from Central Asia won three consecutive maps, bringing them to 4-2, double match point. Japan desperately needed their own 3-0 run to stay in the tournament. Top player [Teacchyyy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7178423) was there when most needed, 1x missing [Toromaru - Ebb Tide](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2082040#osu/4360358) and top scoring NM2 which kept Japan in the match to force the tiebreaker.
```

> At this point, it was a difference of experience. [rollpan](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3062998) with nerves of steel landed a clean FC to advance the land of the rising sun to the quarter-finals. What an amazing performance by Kazakhstan who almost made the miracle happen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, it was a difference of experience. [rollpan](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3062998) with nerves of steel landed a clean FC to advance the land of the rising sun to the Quarterfinals. What an amazing performance by Kazakhstan who almost made the miracle happen.
```

---

> For the coming weekend, you really don't want to miss out on the North American clash between the United States and Canada.
> 
> Also: Will Germany start their rampage through loser's bracket? Check out the [osulive Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive) and tune in for the Quarter-finals this weekend!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the coming weekend, you really don't want to miss out on the North American clash between the United States and Canada. And what about Germany — will they start their rampage through the losers' bracket, or fall at the hands of a new unforeseen star of the show?

View the match schedule in the [OWC 2023 wiki article](/wiki/Tournaments/OWC/2023) (it's updated regularly) and put what excites you into the calendar, then check out the [osulive Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive) to tune in for the Quarterfinals this weekend!
```

> — Junihuhn

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
—Junihuhn
```
